# The Emperor's New Mind:

It details the reasons for which one cannot state an AI can truly gain a human 'consciousness.'

Penrose defines the logic behind the Turing Machine - if one cannot discern between a computer and a human being by asking questions, the idea assumes that the machine in fact *does* have a conscious. Also known as the strong AI point of view, it believes that the human consciousness can be formed by an algorithm. Yet Penrose argues against this argument in the first chapter:

1. Does reacting to a stimulation necessarily feels pleasure and pain? The reflex we gain from experience that touching a hot pan is not necessarily stimulated by pain; in fact, we feel the pain after the reflex. 
2. The case of Chinese letters illustrates that an algorithm does not necessarily presuppose consciousness. An Englishman, knowing from instructions that he must push out certain pages containing letters in Chinese as he receives them, does not necessarily understand Chinese itself; it is merely that he understands the role he plays, not the meaning behind it. 
3. According to Quantum Physics, the particles that make up the human is meaningless; rather, what is important is the way in which the particles are structured. Furthermore, the particles that make up a human continually changes and are replaced. As it follows, we can assume that there is something further that makes up the human mind other than the physical, and that the physical algorithm is not sufficient to replicate the human consciousness. 

The book continues on the talk about the question on whether Mathematics is invented or discovered. Penrose replies with a bit of both; while some may invent a method of explaining Mathematics in a superficial sense, examples such as the Mandelbrot Set illustrate Math is not truly made up completely from the human mind but goes beyond it. This illustrates how algorithms perhaps do hold something within themselves, not limited to human reasoning. Yet Penrose argues against this point in the 4th chapter with the concept of non-algorithmic mathematics.